---
title: "Furious 7: (2015)"
date: 2015-04-18
categories: 
  - "cinema"
tags: 
  - "2015"
  - "artificial-intelligence"
  - "chris-morgan"
  - "dwayne-johnson"
  - "eagle-eye"
  - "furious-7"
  - "jack-gill"
  - "james-wan"
  - "jason-stathom"
  - "mike-smith"
  - "paul-walker"
  - "seven"
  - "spiro-razatos"
  - "universal-hack"
  - "vin-diesel"
coverImage: "fast-furious-7-one-last-ride-wallpaper.jpg"
---

Making a movie is one thing and dedicating it to someone is another. Sometimes the situation gets worse when this decision is to be made while filming. _Furious 7_ underwent similar precarious situation.

James Wan was left with no choice but to guide Chris Morgan to rewrite the script. The script, however, turned out to be more feeble than ever. I don't know whether it was part of the plan or not but the concept of _Universal Hack_ under the name of _God's Eye_ was downplayed so much that it irked me as to why it was anyway included in the story. _Eagle Eye_ was unique only because it showcased _Universal Hack_ in the form of a developed artificial intelligence. But _Furious 7_ was actually more about parceling the whole concept into a flash drive. And the whole story then revolved around that flash drive with a glimpse of Jason Stathom appearing and disappearing.

James Wan is too good to be a director for _Fast and Furious_ series. And I seriously liked what he did with the _Tokyo Drift_. I'm not questioning his creativity with the _Insidious_ and _Saw_ series but somehow the direction was frenetic. The only thing that kept the movie together was the stunt and its direction. Only a handful of actors like Jason Stathom and Tom Cruise in Hollywood actually performs their stunt and so the entire credit for the movie must go to Spiro Razatos, Mike Smith, and Jack Gill for creating those beautiful and breath-taking action sequences. Some stunts were actually shot in real and not with the CGI (Computer Generated Graphics). Although I'm not sure about the issues with the two bullies, Vin Diesel and Dwayne Johnson as whether or not they actually performed or got body doubles.

Finally, James Wan did his part by stealing the screen in the last frame to bid farewell to Paul Walker. And that's the creativity I was hoping from him.
