---
title: "Pink: (2016)"
date: 2016-09-19
categories: 
  - "cinema"
tags: 
  - "2016"
  - "amitabj-bachhan"
  - "angad-bedi"
  - "anirudhha-roy-chowdhary"
  - "court"
  - "gender-biasness"
  - "judge"
  - "kirti-kulhari"
  - "molestation"
  - "pink"
  - "piyush-mishra"
  - "prejudice"
  - "prostitution"
  - "rape"
  - "shoojit-sircar"
  - "society"
  - "taapsee-pannu"
coverImage: "pink-movie-still-1.jpg"
---

Who draws the line? Who defines the morality? These questions are easily avoided in any public forum when it comes to gender prejudices. Even some women are so feudal minded that they tend to pass their firm judgement that it is always up to the women to avoid any mishap. It is a situation where we as a society would need to look further. Something is really going wrong. Aniruddha Roy Chowdhury makes an effort to finally put those harsh questions back on the face of our society.

The issue of morality is subjective for many but the issue where only one gender has to always draw a line is disturbing. That very responsibility is always a shared one. It is at least for me. The movie starts with a firm line of thought. But then undergoes the same confusion that people in our society face. A situation where it is convenient to blame the female. Even the family starts to share the same line of thought when our society decides to go haywire. The issue of morality then becomes the most easily misinterpreted concepts in the minds of most people. And by people I mean both the genders.

Conceptually the movie is strong but factually the story on the streets is still different. Neither those men would leave the girls as is nor the sessions court judge would be too idealistic to take the moral high ground despite the evidence what the public prosecutor would produce. Ritesh Shah, the writer of the movie lacks those certain skills of script writing where he could have produced more evidence in the court proceedings. The other thing that he could have done is to make the Judge more realistic or someone who we see in our days.

The movie tracks and the background score are not convincing. It appears to be inclined more towards in teaching a lesson rather than being rhythmic. The best thing that happened with the movie is its direction. Those exact moments that happened inside the room of the hotel in Surajkund, Faridabad were displayed at the very last moment. Thereby, leaving all of us in the same state of confusion of whether or not we should quickly pass our judgement. The movie is properly edited and shows the good craftsmanship of direction. This could very well be an unique element in Indian cinema and some of the well known directors should make a note of this for their future reference.

Although the word on the streets about a girl would still not change even if the court decides to take the side of the female. But somewhere we should take that initiative to be at least more open about the other genders. Male dominant mindset should not dictate the concept of morality under any circumstances. That responsibility is still shared and needs to be this way for the entire time. I hope that there would be more such movies in Indian cinema to let us see the things as we should.
