---
title: "Iron Fist: Season 1 (TV Series 2017)"
date: 2017-03-19
categories: 
  - "cinema"
tags: 
  - "arrow"
  - "danny-rand"
  - "daredevil"
  - "dc"
  - "finn-jones"
  - "iron-fist"
  - "marvel"
  - "scott-buck"
coverImage: "/sudovid-blog/images/marvel-iron-fist-netflix-bad-reviews-237045-1280x0-1.jpg"
---

**Marvel Television** is expected to launch **_The Defenders_** in September, 2017. The preparations were made to introduce all the lead characters before the launch. _Finn Jones,_ chosen to play the character of **_Iron Fist,_** becomes the most important character for the upcoming series **_The Defenders_**. The others, **_Luke Cage_** (played by _Mike Colter_), **_Daredevil_** (played by _Charlie Cox_), and **_Jessica Jones_** (played by _Krysten Ritter_) were left to follow his build up to the plot. Wouldn't that be amazing? The sad reality, however, is that the screenplay written for the story of Iron Fist turned out to be rather average.

Critics from all over have criticized this new series and especially the lead actor, _Finn Jones_. To some extent, I also agree. _Finn Jones_ is the most pathetic looking **_Iron Fist_**. You might even come up with an emotion as to why this character is made so weak and fragile. This is happening mostly due to the fact that we all have already watched the best of the lot, **_Daredevil_**. _Charlie Cox_ has played the character so well that others even in the **_Marvel Cinematic Universe_** just look pathetic and vulnerable. To my understanding, the debate about the color or race of the lead character is just not the case. **_Iron Fist_** could be anyone. The things that matter are screenplay, direction, and acting. Unfortunately, _Finn Jones_ was given the most important story with the weakest screenplay.

The television adaptation of **_Iron Fist_** comes up with a twisted tale of the original comic version. The background story about the parents of _Danny Rand_ is just not there yet. The plot avoided the original story of the city of _K’un-L’un_ and how _Danny_ got his powers. I am only hoping that we would be able to see more in the upcoming seasons. This has seriously weakened the entire plot. The build-up to his character has lost respect in the minds of most viewers. This could have been avoided if they just copied the style of DC’s **_Arrow_**. I know that **DC** and **Marvel** could never agree on anything and so the audience needs to bear the consequences. But I can assure you that **Marvel’s** **_Iron Fist_** storyline still has some interesting characters. Look out for Colleen Wing (played by _Jessica Henwick_). Marvel is actually getting good at serious portrayal of the other characters where DC usually fails.

_Trevor Morris_ has carefully crafted the theme music for the series. The special effects were, however, not up to the mark. _Scott Buck,_ the creator for the series, has also created **_Dexter (2006)_** series. It wouldn't be too harsh to say that he just didn’t like **_Iron Fist_** (or the character of _Danny Rand_) enough and so he focused more on building other characters. Despite all the loopholes, the series **_Iron Fist_** is stronger than **_Luke Cage_** and fairly feels more connected than **_Jessica Jones_**. I would recommend the show for casual viewing with a disclaimer that _Drew Goddard’s_ **_Daredevil_** and _Scott Buck’s_ **_Iron Fist_** should not be compared side-by-side and should be watched with a slightly lower expectation.
