---
title: "Lion: (2017)"
date: 2017-02-04
categories: 
  - "cinema"
tags: 
  - "2016"
  - "2017"
  - "a-long-way-home"
  - "dev-patel"
  - "dipti-naval"
  - "garth-davis"
  - "lion"
  - "luke-davies"
  - "nicole-kidman"
  - "rooney-mara"
  - "saroo-brierley"
  - "sheru-munshi-khan"
  - "sunny-pawar"
coverImage: "/sudovid-blog/images/lion_anatomy_-_5_-_embed_-_2016.jpg"
---

I have this habit of concealing and holding my emotions well. From the last few movies, I’m observing a slight change in myself. I have started feeling scared, grieved, and agonized. I just couldn’t control my emotions anymore. Or, is it just the case of watching a few very good and exceptional movies?

A young boy, who got separated from his home at a young age of five, was reunited with his birth mother after 25 years. It, indeed, sounded like a typical Bollywood flick. But this is an actual story about a boy named _Sheru Munshi Khan_ (pronounced incorrectly as _Saroo_) and his journey back home. I have never seen a movie so engaging and emotionally powerful. _Saroo Brierley_ (present name) wrote his story, _**A Long Way Home**_, in 2014 and _Luke Davies_ adapted it for a movie in 2016.

With the flashes of childhood memories and a piece of modern technology, he was able to do some mathematical calculations about the speed of the train and the platforms it covered. _Saroo_ was able to draw a virtual radius of all the probable locations near his hometown. With _**Google Earth**_ he was able to locate the open fields where his mother use to work as a labor. And while going through the Street View mode in _**Google Earth**_, he discovered **Ganesh Talai** (in Khandwa, Madhya Pradesh). Young _Saroo_ with his lisp accent used to pronounce **Ganastalay** as his home town and so no one could figure out of what he was actually saying then.

The acting and screen presence displayed by the young actor, _Sunny Pawar_, is nothing short of something marvelous and exceptional. _Nicole Kidman_ and _Priyanka Bose_ were both excellent in portraying and playing the role of a mother. The emotional tyranny has been portrayed very well and throughout in the movie. _Dev Patel_ (as a grown-up _Saroo_) also played his part well. The first half of the movie has been depicted exceptionally well. The second half slightly disappoints but again the climax brings back everything. _Garth Davis_ puts forward his directional masterpiece in a way that it strongly feels and appeals real.

The movie also portrays one thing subtly quite well, child trafficking. Young _Saroo_ had to go through with all this during his struggle to find way back home. The struggles he underwent and the life he got later is a piece of miracle. He was helped by _Mrs. Sood_ (played by _Dipti Naval_) in a childcare facility and got a foster home in Australia. His foster parents kept his name, _Saroo_, intact. But only after 25 years, he realized that his real name was _Sheru_, _**A Lion**_.
