---
title: "Mia Khalifa on Dunkirk: (2017)"
date: 2017-07-25
categories: [Drama, Thriller]
tags: 
  - "1940"
  - "battle-of-dunkirk"
  - "christopher-nolan"
  - "dunkirk"
  - "fionn-whitehead"
  - "hans-zimmer"
  - "hoyte-van-hoytema"
  - "mark-rylance"
  - "mia-khalifa"
  - "operation-dynamo"
  - "sully"
  - "tom-hardy"
  - "world-war-2"
coverImage: "/images/dunkirk-3358x1406-army-tom-hardy-cillian-murphy-best-movies-12934-scaled.jpg"
---

It's not very often that I see a movie and go through with its review too. In modern times, it's difficult to avoid that and especially when the reviewer is an underground internet sensation (_Mia Khalifa_). The maker, _Christopher Nolan_, and _Mia Khalifa_ are two very different personalities and it's rather more difficult to avoid them.

<figure>

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NE94h68zQF0

<figcaption>

_**Courtesy: Mia Khalifa (YouTube)**_

</figcaption>

</figure>

Though _Nolan_ has his own view on representing and handpicking one of the most gruesome historical events during **World War II**,  his presentation reflecting the events on different timelines for each sub-plot could be confusing for some. The events on the harbor was set for one week (primarily focused on the actor _Fionn Whitehead_), the events on the sea was set for one day (focused on _Mark Rylance_), and the events in air was set for one hour (focused on _Tom Hardy_). The direction and storytelling at such levels may hinder the common sense if it’s already non-existent. Keeping that aside, the cinematographic appeal of the movie is tempting and so is _Ms. Khalifa_ hence my pain and agony.

The movie focuses on the evacuation operation code named **Operation Dynamo**. I believe others would have easily chosen **Battle of Dunkirk** as the plot but _Nolan_ always has his own pickings. **Operation Dynamo** was a successful event in history but the battle was a failure for the allied forces. The horror of that event and the survival instincts of people during that time are mixed and presented diligently by _Nolan_. Together with _Hans Zimmer_ and _Hoyte van Hoytema_; _Christopher Nolan_ has provided the ultimate visual and audio experience to the horror of **World War II**. The class direction without shedding blood on screen is a treat in itself. Similar to the movie _Sully_, _Dunkirk_ has no dependency on three dimensional effects for the visual treat.

The recurring actors from _Nolan’s_ team were aptly placed on screen and the new ones were chosen carefully. These actors are mostly British and hence the accent. _Ms. Khalifa_ couldn’t hear the dialogue clearly partly due to the funny British accent and partly due to the _Hans Zimmer’s_ background score. The most disturbing part of her review was when she got confused about the timeline and if that event had actually ended **World War II** in 1940 (and not in 1945). Nevertheless, she now has a Youtube account out of sheer love for _Mr. Nolan (_I guess).

Though _Dunkirk_ might not be the best work of Mr. Nolan, it is easily one of the best survival war-crime drama. The screenplay of the movie, in most parts, clichéd and this I wasn't expecting from _Mr. Nolan_. It is indeed a masterpiece purely from a clean directional point of view.
