---
title: "Treason: (2022)"
date: 2022-12-27
categories: [Drama, Spy, Series]
tags: 
  - "british"
  - "charlie-cox"
  - "hollywood"
  - "jack-ryan"
  - "olga-kurylenko"
  - "oona-chaplin"
  - "treason"
  - "young-wallander"
coverImage: "/images/treason.jpeg"
---

While waiting for _**Treason**_, I stumbled upon _**Jack Ryan**_ season 3. I think I was already detached with _**Jack Ryan**_ from season 2 as it has nothing new to offer. Season 3 felt the same way and it was like rewatching _**The Sum of all Fears**._ With _**Treason**_, I had different expectations as it is more of a political or family thriller than a spy thriller. The real reason was of course, _Charlie Cox_.

Though the series is in itself quite uninteresting as you lose your hopes midway for an exciting thriller or end, it still manages to hold things together due to its writing. _Matt Charman_ who is known for his storytelling in _**Bridge of Spies**_ knows that if a movie or series is story driven and not character driven, it needs to have ample space for other characters to pitch in. _Charlie Cox_ in a second lead seemed like an appropriate choice (especially after watching _**Kin**_) as he made his presence felt in a way that the main lead was overshadowed for a while and then after his departure there was ample space for the protagonist (_Olga Kurylenko_) to take the lead. However, the most interesting character was of _Maddy_ played by _Oona Chaplin_ whose character arc was designed as such that she needed to up the ante in only the final few moments.

I don’t think that watching _**Treason**_ in a format of limited series would do any justice to the characters or story. I would definitely want a season 2 where the story just picks up from where it left in the season finale. That last call made by _Maddy_ to the CIA agent gives an interesting twist to the story and a more profound plot for a definite season 2. The chemistry between _Oona Chaplin_ and _Olga Kurylenko_ is also I felt was left somewhat unexplored and the duo can make a comeback in season 2. I’m not sure if the makers see this as an interesting take to extend the series and translate it to another season but it would be quite interesting to see if that happens.

I have seen that most British thrillers are somewhat grounded in a way that you don’t see that level of Hollywood twists, turns, and action. It is atypical in a way that can surely turn off most people and force them to have a negative view about the movie or series. And, this is true for most European thrillers. If you have watched _**Young Wallander**_ on Netflix or other similar series, you would just understand it.
