---
title: "Kandahar: (2023)"
date: 2023-05-29
categories: [Action, Thriller, Drama]
tags: 
  - "mattdamon"
  - "afghanistan"
  - "alifazal"
  - "appletvplus"
  - "cia"
  - "covenant"
  - "gerardbutler"
  - "greenzone"
  - "guyritchie"
  - "iran"
  - "tehran"
coverImage: "/images/kandahar.jpeg"
---

Up recently, I watched _Gerard Butler’s_ _**Plane**_ and _**Last Seen Alive**_, which are decent action thrillers. _Gerard Butler_ is known to deliver some decent action thrillers just like _Liam Neeson_. Therefore, I thought I would wait for something new from him to review. But then, I watched the much anticipated _**Kandahar**_. That made me think if it’s _Gerard Butler_ or something else that I disliked.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2FpmznpNyYI

You see there’s indeed something wrong with Hollywood when they try to portray the Middle East. But, it’s still consistent with the track record of the US. And, yeah, they have bombed 6 or 7 middle eastern countries and so how can their portrayal be any different. You see a pattern where an American patriotic soldier befriends a local middle eastern guy and sympathizes with his circumstances and fate but is never able to do anything. We saw this in _**Green Mile**_, which is a decent thriller. Then, we saw several thrillers after that following the same pattern and yes that was consistent in **Marvel Comics** _**Iron Man**_ too.

_**Kandahar**_ could have been a decent thriller if executed well with a proper screenplay. But they chose to drive the movie the same way others have driven. People have already started rejecting this sort of movie making unless it gives something else to the audience.

By something else, I clearly don’t mean to cast a Bollywood actor, _Ali Faizal_, as a **Pakistani ISI** agent. And then, use him in the entire movie for just bike sequences. I didn’t get the point of having him in the movie at all assuming that there was some logic.

Overall, the movie finishes as expected with the American hero coming home. I mean _Guy Ritchie’s_ take with the _**Covenant**_ was much better. At least the movie was made to empathize with the local cast which is very different from most Hollywood movies.

The only good aspect about the movie, _**Kandahar**_, is that it is shot well in the deserts of Afghanistan. But if you are looking to explore more about the other prominent “_under utilized_” actors such as _Vassilis Koukalani_ and _Navid Negahban_, you should better _**Tehran**_ which is available on **Apple TV** plus.
