---
title: "Loki: Season 1 &amp; 2 (TV Series 2021-23)"
date: 2023-11-10
categories: [Sci-Fi, Comics, Series]
tags: 
  - "antman"
  - "avengers"
  - "gugumbatha-raw"
  - "jonathanmajors"
  - "kangtheconqueror"
  - "kehuyquan"
  - "loki"
  - "marvel"
  - "ouroboros"
  - "owenwilson"
  - "renslayer"
  - "sophiadimartino"
  - "tomhiddleston"
  - "tva"
coverImage: "/images/loki.webp"
---

**Marvel** has left us with only a handful of watchable shows and _**Loki**_ is one of them. Now, _Loki_ (played by _Tom Hiddleston_) might have been presented as a villain in the **Marvel** comics, his character was found to be more loved than that of _**Thor**_. The Norse god of mischief _**Loki**_ is an ideal _**Avenger**_ as well, so when **Marvel** decided to include him in the _**Avenger**_ storyline, it became evident that he deserves his own show. Though the series _**Loki**_ explores the good side of _**God of Mischiefs**_, it also shows that this self-loathed god can only love himself. The introduction of his own variant from another universe, _Sylvie_ (played by _Sophia Di Martino_), was interestingly put in the season 1 to depict that.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/ZwrIMilCCIU" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Season one of _**Loki**_ explored the **Time Variance Authority** (TVA) where _**Loki**_ was brought up as a criminal who manipulated time while playing with the **Tesseract** in _**Avengers**_. In **Marvel’s** _**Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania**_ movie, _**Kang the Conqueror’s**_ message was clear that in order to avoid the destructive battle between different variants of him, he needs to take a tough decision. The series _**Loki**_ became an outcome of that. As the story of season one continued, we saw that there's something more evil than _**Loki**_ himself and TVA is manipulating time according to the will of time keepers. But, by the end of season 1, we get to see that even the time keepers were not real and TVA was indeed managed by _**Kang the Conqueror**_ (played by _Jonathan Majors_) who recognizes himself as “_**He who remains**_” sitting beyond the sacred timeline that he himself created in order to prune all other branched timelines that could possibly create his own variants. In any case, this idea was not novel and doesn’t allow people to have free-will to live on any of the timelines. Thus, _Sylvie_ decided to kill “_**He who remains**_” in the season one finale.

The second season starts exactly from that point but also reveals how _**Kang**_ created the sacred timeline and his best variant of “_**He who remains**_” through _Renslayer_ (played by _Gugu Mbatha-Raw_) and _**Miss Minutes**_. _**Loki**_, on the other hand, explores the possibilities of what could have been done otherwise. He learns how to pause, control, and travel through time which the show calls **Time Slipping**. _**Loki’s**_ knowledge of understanding the outcome makes him **Time Slip** for several iterations just to learn how to manage the infinite number of branched timelines that just started after the death of “_**He who remains**_” in season one.

The second season finally gave us glimpses of what life _**Mobius**_ (played by _Owen Wilson_) could have, which is kind of a relief and also explores the character story of different TVA members on their respective timelines if they weren’t hijacked into TVA. The screenplay adapted by _Eric Martin_ is great in itself as we know in the beginning of the show that **Marvel** had plans to inculcate the character of _**Lok**_i in and as an _**Avenger**_. I think the best idea was indeed to turn his image brighter and make him do the unexpected. The series finale is written exactly on that premise where _**Loki**_ decides to put himself in the place of “_**He who remains**_” and use his God powers to control the infinite number of branched timelines thereby saving lives of several people.

The second season is a mixed bag of humor, thrill, and adventure. The show is cleverly written and directed, but gives us that incomplete sense of the events which is true in our understanding of the universe as well. For example, you never know if _Ouroboros_ created the TVA or “_**He who remains**_” as both had the same TVA handbook. So, the chicken and egg problem remains unsolved. While season three might have given us some more insights, I believe that this unsolved mystery should remain as is.
