---
title: "You: Season 3 (TV series 2023)"
date: 2023-03-11
categories: [Thriller, Drama, Series]
tags: 
  - "caroline-kepnes"
  - "greg-berlanti"
  - "joe-goldberg"
  - "penn-badgely"
  - "sera-gamble"
  - "thriller"
  - "you"
coverImage: "/images/you.jpg"
---

The psychological thrillers have a way to creep inside your brain. Though I watch and take time to understand, I maintain a healthy distance from it. The series is a perfect example of our times where we accept an antagonist to lead the show. The psych of it is difficult to understand but we all have our vices that drives us closer to an antagonist first. We try to find a way to associate and indulge with the character unless the scenario compels us to hate it. This series does a really good job of keeping the antagonist as human as required.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r1wlOIYZHYI

_Joe Goldberg_ is an obsessive character that dwells on people's lives to finally imbibe it. The obsession to find the perfect _**You**_ and have self-indulgence is not a new concept. We all do at times but for different or better reasons. Here the character arc of _Joe Goldberg_ (played by _Penn Badgely_), in its obsession of finding **_You_**, is so designed that it covers all the stages of a character development. Each season starts with a back story of recovering from a past trauma, pushing the character into a wilderness of its own to find a new **_You_**, getting wrapped in the potholes of own doing, and finally ending on a success note to keep the motivation up. In fact, the entire romanticism in the movie making is based on it and so it’s instantly relatable. The character arc makes us believe in the antagonist as the show’s protagonist.

The series creators _Greg Berlanti_ and _Sera Gamble_ have created great shows in the past but I think _Sera’s_ adaptation of _Caroline Kepnes'_ writing is excellent. I could see the traits of **_Supernatural_** in it with all the televised twists and turns. _Caroline Kepnes_ is known for her novel **_Providence_** where she maintains the supernatural angle but _Sera_ has adapted that beautifully and in her own style. _Greg_ does bring the charm of _**Flash**_ and _**Arrow**_ to drive the show by introducing different characters at a pace. The writing just works well with all of them teaming up together.

I’m not sure if the story or the novel ends with season four. The pattern reveals it differently. In odd numbered seasons (one and three), the character of **_You_** dies whereas in even numbered seasons (two and four), the character **_You_** survives. But, then the fourth season also surprises us by not killing the past and the current season’s love interest. Interestingly, the survival of the characters of two **_You_**s is something new but could also mean that the story could end here meaning that _Joe Goldberg_ has finally overcome his obsessiveness for **_You_**. It sure is a meaningful end to his character without disturbing the series’ balance. We will have to wait and see if we get a surprising fifth installment of this successful psychopathic journey.
