---
title: "The Flash: (2023)"
date: 2023-07-02
categories: [Action, Comics]
tags: 
  - "andymuschietti"
  - "benaffleck"
  - "dccomics"
  - "dceu"
  - "dcuniverse"
  - "ezramiller"
  - "galgadot"
  - "henrycavill"
  - "jamesgunn"
  - "moviereview"
  - "theflash"
  - "theflashmovie"
  - "theflashseason3"
coverImage: "/images/theflash2023.jpg"
---

We all know that the movie _**Flash**_ bombed at the box office. There could be several reasons for that. First that comes to my mind is the lead cast, _Ezra Miller_. He has been involved in a lot of controversies. The harassment charges against him at a bar in Hawaii and the restraining order against him following that. His public behavior is questionable. But, that doesn’t seem to bother audiences at least in the theaters where I watched it. So, the question remains what was so bad in the movie that irked a lot of people.

https://dai.ly/x8svhi6

Well, to be honest, my objection to the flying baby scene is true. My own daughter left the theater crying out loud after seeing that horrific scene. Though _Andy Muschetti_ tried to compensate for that in the end credits by portraying it from a dog’s point of view, I assume that wasn’t enough. You just can’t correct a blunder by adding a few more scenes. At least from a moral point of view, the roasting of a baby in a microwave, prioritizing the snack over catching a baby, and then calming the shouting nurse at the end is not dark humor. Neither is it an insult comedy that people would be ready to take with a pinch of salt. So, the adverse reaction is obvious. But, that’s not enough either.

Ever since _James Gunn_ arrived at **DCEU**, things have changed drastically. I never liked his **MCU** **_Guardians of Galaxy_** so I have my own reservations regarding his decisions at **DCEU**. _James'_ decision to purge all the good actors such as _Ben Affleck_ for _**Batman**_, _Gal Gadot_ for _**Wonder Woman**_, and _Henry Cavill_ for _**Superman**_ for his franchise is a bit far-fetched. He didn’t seem to grasp the concept of preserving talent. He wants to create his own legacy and he would do whatever it takes be it firing people at the cost of the **DCEU** franchise. Maybe, some people are made like that and can ruin the quality at the cost of their own stubbornness.

The storyline of _The Flash_ also changed several times and the cast was shuffled around. The end part where _George Clooney_ was brought back just to show that _Ben Affleck_ isn’t part of the **DCEU’s** _**Batman**_ is indeed absurd. We know that there won’t be any _**Batman**_ movie with _George Clooney_ and so bringing him back just to maintain stubbornness is a bit overboard and absurd.

The final blow is in the screenplay and how badly it has been written. When you know that your _**Justice League**_ characters aren’t part of the **DCEU** anymore, you don’t have to bring them in a solo movie if that was ever an intention. The television adaptation of the flashpoint story was still better as it didn’t involve a lot of hue and cry about other **DC** characters. In the future, if **DCEU** learns from its mistake, I think they still have a chance to revive the **DC Universe**.
