---
title: "Blue Beetle: (2023)"
date: 2023-08-23
categories: 
  - "cinema"
tags: 
  - "batman"
  - "bluebeetle"
  - "brunamarquezine"
  - "dccomics"
  - "dceu"
  - "georgelopez"
  - "jamesgunn"
  - "moviereview"
  - "theflashmovie"
  - "xolomariduena"
coverImage: "blue-beetle.webp"
---

When **DC** released the short animation movie _**Blue Beetle**_ in 2021, I never thought I would see its adaptation on a big screen especially when **DC Comics** is in a lot of turmoil. But, I think a refreshing take on it could be one of the factors to revive the ever so dead **DCEU**. The storyline, however, doesn’t show _**Ted Kord**_ as _**Blue Beetle**_ but in fact _Gareth Dunnet-Alcocer_, the writer of the movie, chose _Jaime Reyes_ played by _Xolo Maridueña_ from _**DC Comics Infinite Crisis 3**_ published in February 2006 for the lead role. This is a good decision considering the fact that _James Gunn’s_ **DC** verse is going to be different with a lot of new actors.

We have all seen _Xolo Maridueña_ on **YouTube** and the **Netflix** series _**Cobra Kai**_. He looks like ready material for the role. With his martial arts training from the series, the fight sequences appear more natural. Also, the Brazilian actress _Bruna Marquezine_ looks promising for the role. Besides that, seeing _George Lopez_ again on screen after a long gap is indeed good. He still gives me vibes of the 2015 movie **_Spare Parts_** where he helps a bunch of undocumented migrant kids in building tech from spare parts. This is so relatable given the fact that this movie also shows him as a tech genius who himself belongs to an immigrant Latin American family.

In the movie, _Jaime_ is shown as a graduate student returning to a fictional city of **Palmera** but we could see from his t-shirt that he actually went for his studies in **Gotham** city which would inadvertently result in a crossover with _**Batman**_ at some point I assume. Now, which _**Batman**_ is a big question. Already in the movie _**Flash**_, **DCEU** has messed up with the cast. But, assuming _James Gunn's_ stubborn attitude, it would be very difficult to guess the actor's name. I certainly don’t hope to see _John Krasinski_ as _**Batman**_.

The humor is decent considering the fact that a social commentary is encouraged in the movie about how a graduate would mean a whole life of student debt and loans. But, while looking for a job if you cross paths with a rich girl, that actually qualifies as a dream for most migrants. So, I assume the amalgamation of a Latin American family with **Kord** industries is done wisely with a subtle humor.

Keeping everything aside, a movie such as this would be considered decent based on the villain it chooses. Though _**Blue Beetle**_ doesn’t bring any significant **DC** villain in the origin story of _Jaime Reyes_, it subtly hints in the post credit scene that the original _**Blue Beetle**_, _Ted Kord_, is still alive. This might open doors for some of the prominent nemesis of _**Blue Beetle**_ in the upcoming **DC** movies which could lead to more crossovers among **DC** movies. And, that is exactly what is required to revive the **DC** universe.
