---
title: "Oppenheimer: (2023)"
date: 2023-07-23
categories: [Drama, Biography]
tags: 
  - "emilyblunt"
  - "florencepugh"
  - "mattdamon"
  - "christophernolan"
  - "dunkirk"
  - "moviereview"
  - "oppenheimer"
  - "robertdowneyjr"
  - "secondworldwar"
coverImage: "/images/oppenheimer_pipe.jpg"
---

_Christopher Nolan_ is known for his film making style when it comes to describing even the smallest details. When we as an audience watch his movies, we can be rest assured that he has taken a 360 degree view of his storyline. From his last venture on the second world war events, _**Dunkirk**_, I was sure that he won’t miss the fine details surrounding the second world war incidents. But, did _Christopher Nolan_ take it too far this time? Let’s examine ourselves.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4NEAtyGEI8g

I had an outside view of the **Manhattan Project** at **Los Alamos** and was slightly short sighted due to my exposure through _Richard Feynman’s_ book _**Surely You're Joking Mr Feynman: Adventures of a Curious Character**_. _Nolan_ didn’t miss this detail either and you can see _Richard Feynman’s_ character is played by _Jack Quaid_. _Nolan_ based his adaptation on a book, _**American Prometheus: The Triumph and Tragedy of J. Robert Oppenheimer**_ written by _Kai Bird_ and _Martin J. Sherwin_. 

But, in the book where _Robert Oppenheimer_ put cyanide in the apple to kill his professor, it is portrayed as a rumor or something that might not have happened. _Nolan_ took the liberty to actually showcase that scene. In the scene, _**Oppenheimer**_ later rejected that apple when picked up by _Neils Bohr_ and not his professor. That creative liberty was objected by even _**Oppenheimer’s**_ grandson, _Charles_, as this was just a rumor and neither the professor died nor there was any proof that such an incident ever happened. I believe as a critic I can only justify this scene if _Nolan_ tried to show _**Oppenheimer's**_ self-obsessive behavior that later _Lewis Strauss_ played by _Robert Downey Junior_ exploited for his revenge.

_Nolan_ categorically defined two parts for this movie. One that deals with the **fission** where _**Oppenheimer**_ was recruited by the U.S. Army General, _Leslie Groves_, played by _Matt Damon_ to lead the **Manhattan Project**. And, the second part that deals with the **fusion** where not supporting the hydrogen bomb became a nightmare for _**Oppenheimer**_.

The first part introduces many characters who were involved in the project and also who were part of _**Oppenheimer’s**_ personal life such as his girlfriend _Jean Tatlock_ played by _Florence Pugh_. This also involves an intimate scene between them which is much criticized in the Indian media. The objection was why the verse “_Now, I have become death, destroyer of the world_” was quoted from the **Bhagavad Gita** just before the intimate scene. Frankly, I neither see any logic in putting that quote in that scene nor do I see any problem with that. In fact, that’s the creative liberty I believe any filmmaker can take. Because none of it is a lie or rumor. _**Oppenheimer**_, in fact, followed **Sanskrit** to read **Bhagavad Gita** as he did to **Das Kapital** for **German**. That only shows his purist image. He tends to read the texts in the original form and not from any translated version. The most interesting aspect, however, was _Matt Damon_ from the first part. His quick and witty responses were indeed the best part of the humor. _Matt Damon_ is an excellent actor in a comic role. If you have watched his 2009 movie, _**The Informant**_, you would know what I mean.

Now the second part is a bit disheartening and deals with the **Fusion** problem that _Lewis Strauss_ took advantage of. The issue was _**Oppenheimer**_ rejected the idea of creating Hydrogen Bomb which requires fission to propel fusion reaction. _Edward Teller_ who proposed the idea of hydrogen bomb felt ignored and dejected and later collaborated with _Strauss_ to humiliate _**Oppenheimer’s**_ public image. A security investigation was carried out in 1954 to explore _**Oppenheimer’s**_ ties and links with the communist party and Soviet Union. _Strauss_ used everything in his book to turn scientists against _**Oppenheimer**_ to revoke his security clearance and remove him from the US government’s policy making body. However, _Strauss_ never got the revenge and all his idiotic plan was revealed by _David Hill_ played by _Rami Malek_.

In the entire movie, we see _**Oppenheimer**_ vulnerable and often self-loathed. He even admitted to having a relationship with _Ruth Tolman_ during his marriage. All this makes me think that whatever creative liberty _Nolan_ took to portray _**Oppenheimer’s**_ image is somewhat justified as he was just a human with higher IQ but also with human flaws. The movie is filled with subtle references if you’re a nerd. Only a few of them I can highlight such as the ripple effect in the pond where **Oppenheimer** discusses the implications of fission with _Albert Einstein_. There’re references to **Black Hole** where _**Oppenheimer**_ sees it as a death of a star and later succumbs to its own glory. And also, where we hear the stomping sound that grips _**Oppenheimer**_ all throughout the movie which was, in fact, related to his first public appearance in a devastated state after the dropping of the atomic bomb on **Nagasaki** and **Hiroshima**. 

Overall, the movie experience is surreal and you would definitely get a 360 degree view about _**Oppenheimer**_ which was expected from _Christopher Nolan_ anyways. My advice is to sit through the movie with attention and open mind as it’s a three hour long journey which can be exhaustive.
