---
title: "Gran Turismo: (2023)"
date: 2023-11-29
categories: 
  - "cinema"
tags: 
  - "2023"
  - "24hoursoflemans"
  - "archiemadekwe"
  - "british"
  - "davidharbour"
  - "djimonhounsou"
  - "granturismo"
  - "jannmardenborough"
  - "nismo"
  - "nissan"
  - "orlandobloom"
  - "paris"
  - "sonypictures"
  - "sonyplaystation"
coverImage: "/images/gran-turismo.jpeg"
---

The gaming series **_Gran Turismo_** is already a hit on _**Sony Playstation**_ but to manifest it into a real life motorsport competition is something extraordinary. No matter how absurd it sounds, the movie _**Gran Turismo**_ is based on such an unrealistic premise that even the best of us would have doubts on the merits of translating video gaming into a real life competition. Whether you dislike or like, _Jann Mardenborough_ is indeed an example for us. Not to doubt the skills of _Jann Mardenborough_, the probability of such an event to happen is immensely based on how good the game has been designed. The details of the racing track and cars have to be top notch to make a gamer feel like driving an actual car on a racing track. The simulation video game, _**Gran Turismo**_, is a perfect example of it. To prove this, **Sony Pictures** makes it a point to show the creator of the game and his dedication to scan real racing cars and tracks to give gamers the best real life feel of everything in the end credits.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s3D1YdkGnqU

Now, coming back to the story, the movie plot begins when _Danny Moore_ (played by _Orlando Bloom_) pitches an idea in front of **Nismo** (a motor sport division of **Nissan**) to recruit and train _**Gran Turismo**_ video game winners to be real life motorsport drivers. The story unfolds in a way that we often see in our daily lives where parents want their kids to play an actual sport instead of sitting in front of a video game. _Jann Mardenborough_ (played by _Archie Madekwe_) underwent the same dilemma. His father _Steve Mardenborough_ (a former football player and played by _Djimon Hounsou_) wanted exactly the same thing. His father also undergoes the transformation to understand that the skills are indeed transferable into the real world. The better aspect about the movie is that the plot pivots from there and focuses more on the high adrenaline racing shots and skill training. The realistic approach taken by the movie is indeed its best aspect. _Jann Mardenborough_ had to undergo several failures to understand the intricacies of real motorsport competition. And, finally at the _**24 Hours of Le Mans**_, he not only proves a point but also wins big to shed his shell and come out as a true winner of the sport.

The acting performances are great and the moment you start to feel the dullness in the British accent, the high adrenaline sporting scenes overtakes and normalizes it. _David Harbour_ as _Jack Salter_ is good in depicting and giving the coaching tips to _Jann_ while also believing in him. The scenes between Archie Madekwe and David Harbour balances out the missing drama in this crisp storyline. Now, whether you take this movie as a promotional gimmick by **Sony** or want to enjoy the thrill of drone shots of actual racing and special effects, is totally up to you.
