---
title: "Echo: (TV Miniseries 2024)"
date: 2024-01-11
categories: [Action, Comics, Series]
tags: 
  - "alaquacox"
  - "charliecox"
  - "daredevil"
  - "disney"
  - "marvel"
  - "marvelcomics"
  - "marvelstudios"
  - "vincentdonofrio"
coverImage: "/images/echo.jpeg"
---

_**Marvel Studios**_ has a long way to go to revive the dying _**MCU**_. Their _**Avenger**_ style storytelling doesn’t always work and the goof ups that _**Disney**_ did with the storytelling is a big gap to fill in. Ever since the announcement from _**Marvel Studios**_ came in to bring back _**Daredevil**_ in the _**MCU**_ main storyline, our hopes were too high. _**Daredevil: Born Again**_ is scheduled to be released sometime in 2025 and **_Marvel_** has a lot of shows coming in between to fill the gap.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RgGkrH1pz4c

**_Hawkeye_** and **_Echo_** are two of the most grounded shows that Marvel has given us so far to set the theme for **_Daredevil_**. The recent announcement regarding the return of all the characters from _**Defenders**_ does set things in the right direction too. Now, _Marion Dayre_ and _Kevin Feige’s_ _**Echo**_ is a continuation of the mini series _**Hawkeye**_ starring _Jeremy Renner_. _Alaqua Cox_ reprises her role as _Maya Lopez_ or _Echo_ from the series _Hawkeye_. For all the grounded shows that _**MCU**_ has, the character of _**Kingpin**_ is indeed its central theme. This miniseries too based its storyline on how _Wilson Fisk_ AKA _**Kingpin**_ treats her adopted niece Maya to get her involved in his crime world.

However, the storyline does offer more than that. _Maya’s_ connection to her native American ancestors and how the mysticism of her generation echoes through her is in fact the crux of _Maya’s_ character. Though the initial few episodes might appear to be a bit stretched and prolonged, the entire runtime of the mini series still doesn’t bore you. Unlike, _**She-Hulk**_, where the character _Daredevil_ had to plunge in somehow in the storyline, the miniseries _**Echo**_ doesn’t require that. The short cameo of _**Daredevil**_ in the first episode still seems to be enough for _Maya’s_ storyline. Her ability to not speak or listen and yet perform fist fights are very well handled by the action directors.

The better aspects of the show are also its weaker aspects. The fact that the storyline is not too dark and complies with what _**Disney**_ offers in general is in fact one of the biggest drawbacks of this show as well. Though the _**Kingpin**_ storyline still shows his own darker past, you never feel that you will ever dive deep into the character of _Maya Lopez_ irrespective of whatever mysticism her storyline has to offer. Also, the character driven story appears to be superficial only. It doesn’t delve more into childhood trauma. The fact that _**Echo**_ is not a complete villainous character, a deeper storyline of building her character would have worked wonders for the show. But, in totality, you won’t notice this if you’re okay with the superficial touch given by _**Disney**_.

I expected at least a storyline that pushes her to be her alter ego _**Ronin**_ by the end of the series as that could have paved a way for the _**New Avengers**_ and a more decent crossover with _**Daredevil**_ and _**Spider-Man**_. Even if you look at the short cameo by _**Daredevil**_ in the first episode, the show could have explored the angle of how she was able to give a good fight to _**Daredevil**_. There was only a passing judgment made by _**Kingpin**_ regarding that.

The introductory theme music is catchy and good. Overall, the show _**Echo**_ is not a bad one to watch. It still gives a refreshing take on what the supporting cast of _**Daredevil**_ can take and turn it into a miniseries.
