---
title: "Road House: (2024)"
date: 2024-03-24
categories: 
  - "cinema"
tags: 
  - "1989"
  - "conor-mcgregor"
  - "doug-liman"
  - "elwood-dalton"
  - "jack-reacher"
  - "jake-gyllenhaal"
  - "road-house"
  - "spider-man"
coverImage: "/sudovid-blog/images/road-house.webp"
---

The 1989 classic _**Road House**_ movie might have a lot more mystery to unravel about the protagonist. And in a way might have made him look like _**Jack Reacher**_. But _Doug Liman_ has a unique way of storytelling for a generation where mystery or anonymity is just a misnomer. To me, this 2014 remake of the classic appeared to be a refreshing take. There might be some people who prefer not to tamper with the original classic and would want to see the same script in the same old style but believe me this one has its charm.

https://www.youtube.com/shorts/MFxMr4Zqcyc

The story begins when _Elwood Dalton_ is approached by a lady named _Frankie_ outside a fight club for a job offer. After a bit of reluctance, _Dalton_ still keeps her contact details. Before he accepts the offer and makes his journey to the _**RoadHouse**_ in _Glass Keys_, Florida, we see a small scene sequence where _Dalton_ tries to end his life on a railway track. And in a matter of a few seconds, he decides to give it a second chance. What we saw there is a bit of a problem in the storytelling as the character arc of _Elwood Dalton_ wasn’t yet open for us and without any background to his past life, we were forced to see that scene. To me, it appeared as if _Doug Liman_ tried to forcefully put up a scene just to create a false mystery for the protagonist. It looked half-baked and too short for the audience to get a hold of his mysterious character arc.

Now, if you can get past that scene and ignore the hurriedness, the rest of the movie is an enjoyable ride. From the moment _Dalton_ puts his foot at _Glass Keys_ as a bouncer till the climax where he fights _Conor McGregor_ (the actual UFC fighter hired in the movie and portrayed as a villain), you're only going to enjoy it. The fight sequences are fun to watch and whatever acting follows it is wholesome. The quirky dialogues that are part of _Elwood Dalton’s_ style of fighting do remind us of that of _Marvel’s Spider-Man_ but if you look a bit deeper it is a departure from the old classic. Now, this little addition is a good mix but given the fact that Dalton’s inner anger comes out after a while, this humor does seem to be a mismatch at times.

If you’re someone who is offended by these nuances that _Doug Liman_ tried to bring in, I believe that a rewatch of the 1989 classic would be more appropriate. But, if you’re someone like me who likes to watch retakes on old subjects, this movie would not disappoint. The terrifying _Conor McGregor_ comes out alive just before the credits paving the way for fans to wait for something in the next installment. The final fight sequence might seem a bit short, but I believe that _Liman_ might be saving it for the subsequent installments.
