---
title: "12th Fail: (2023)"
date: 2024-01-08
categories: [Bollywood, Drama, Adaptation, Biography]
tags: 
  - "12thfail"
  - "2023"
  - "anurahpathak"
  - "bollywood"
  - "manojkumarsharma"
  - "mukherjeenagar"
  - "pcs"
  - "upsc"
  - "vidhuvinodchopra"
  - "vikrantmassey"
coverImage: "/images/12th-fail-trailer-news-5.jpg"
---

There are only a handful of movies in Bollywood that you can watch. _**12th Fail**_ is one of those rare gems. The story is depicted in such a way that it relates to each one of us at different levels. Though I have not been part of the **Union Public Service Commission** (UPSC) examinations, I can still relate to the struggle of failing and getting up once again. I did my engineering twice, one for mechanical at the undergraduate level and another for computers at the graduate level despite poor performance in the 12th exams. So, the tyranny of 12th exams is still vivid in my memories.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f3cC9yrM3p8

I always believed that exams are the worst judge of human intelligence. But, in a populous country like India, where the filter system is the only option, this becomes a necessary evil. Many students in India try to crack **UPSC** and **Provincial Civil Service Examination** (PCS) in whatever capacity they can. Most of them get disheartened and delve into other areas but some of them do make it and their joy of becoming an **IAS** or **IPS** officer is immensely satisfying.

The movie **12th Fail** is based on the 2019 non-fiction book written by _Anurag Paathak_ about the real-life story of _**Manoj Kumar Sharma**_ who overcame extreme poverty and became an **Indian Police Service** officer. The story unfolds very realistically and shows us what most of us don't see. The struggle of a person in living an extreme poverty life in a village and how he manages to come out to prepare for something he is unaware of. The transition from his village life to _Mukharjee Nagar_, Delhi is shown in a manner that appears very realistic. The place, _Mukharjee Nagar_, is known and famous for those who aspire to become a civil servant. The place is filled with many coaching centers. Some are frauds which is not very uncommon and only a handful of them do actually help students to crack the toughest exam in India. The movie does highlight this detail.

Most movies shine because of extraordinary storyline or if it contains some violence but to portray a simple life story without all that is immensely difficult for an actor and director. The story relies heavily on the personality of the character _Manoj_ and his attitude towards life. His reluctance to give up and continue trying is inspiring for many students. The adaptation done by _Vidhu Vinod Chopra_ is in itself a craft. _Vikrant Massey_ who plays the role of _Manoj Kumar Sharma_, effortlessly brings the character to life. It’s like _Vikrant’s_ second nature is acting. He has already given us good performances in web series and other movies but I think this would be his best ever.

The realistic portrayal in the movie makes you feel that you are also present with the characters in the moment and therefore pushes you to complete the journey of _Manoj Kumar_ till he becomes a civil servant. There is no dry moment in the story and the direction and acting keeps you glued to the screen till the very end. I hope we will be able to see many more movies in the future that show simple life and non-violent stories with such finesse.
