---
title: "The Order: (2024)"
date: 2025-01-04
categories: 
  - "cinema"
tags: 
  - "2024"
  - "2025"
  - "abrahamicreligion"
  - "amazonprimevideo"
  - "aryan"
  - "bias"
  - "donaldtrump"
  - "hinduism"
  - "india"
  - "judelaw"
  - "jurneesmollett"
  - "kashpatel"
  - "maga"
  - "makeamericagreatagain"
  - "nicholashoult"
  - "prejudice"
  - "racism"
  - "republican"
  - "rishisunak"
  - "theorder"
  - "tyesheridan"
  - "unitedkingdom"
  - "unitedstates"
  - "vediccivilization"
  - "vivekramaswamy"
coverImage: "The-Order-Cover.png"
---

If you’re aware of [**_Turner Diaries_**](https://archive.org/details/turner-diaries_202402), it mentions six stages of reclaiming American white supremacy leading to the rebellion attack in the United States. Unfortunately, such an incident already took place on _January 6th 2021_ where a mob of far right supporters of Donald Trump stormed the [**_U.S. Capitol_** hill](https://www.britannica.com/event/January-6-U-S-Capitol-attack) when _he_ was impeached. And, at this moment seeing a similar discussion circling on social media about making America great again brings or rather forces us to tell this crucial story of [**_The Order_**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Order_\(white_supremacist_group\))**_._** 

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=360DN8IWnNY

The plot is unfortunately based on true events of 1984 that led to the assassination of an American radio show host, [Alan Harrison Berg](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alan_Berg).  His outspoken atheistic and liberal views didn’t match with those of  white supremacist groups. And the fringe element cult, led by Bob Mathews, by the name _The Order_ executed all five of the total six stages as mentioned in [**_Turner Diaries_**](https://archive.org/details/turner-diaries_202402). I believe that the recent MAGA movement which proclaims to make America great again will go full circle because when you mix ideologies of the far right with that of the far left, you get a confused political outlook. And, that’s the one defining our modern day geopolitics.

This dangerous combination is exploited well by the upcoming 47th president of the United States. To save himself from the January 6th incident, he has appointed an Indian-American leader, Kash Patel, to lead the FBI. Now, this could go either way for people and Donald Trump. He is no Jude Law who played the role to his perfection to catch the culprit in the movie. I feel that Indian leadership tends to fail at crucial times. As an example, Vivek Ramaswamy couldn’t defend his race to the US presidential seat and gave up quickly to pave way for Donald Trump. The same can happen with the recent H1B visa fiasco issue as well. None of them could actually defend and so the replacements would be easier to appoint later by Trump. I mean somebody needs to take the bait and blame meanwhile and who could do better than an Indian. After all, Rishi Sunak did it for the United Kingdom.

The problem with the white supremacy nowadays is mostly about its obsession to Abrahamic religions. Even if the white Christians are against Jews or Islam, they would still come together to fight against the mystical and easily misunderstood civilization of the east. And, unfortunately this eastern Vedic civilization is deemed as religion by the west hence attracting the most hateful comments and abuse. The recent debate over accepting Mexicans over Indians is a straight answer to the mentality that I just mentioned. It’s no more about the race but more to do with the Abrahamic ideology of preaching and following a prophet and if you don’t have one, you are categorized and ridiculed as a paigon.
